# About me
My name is Joanna Morris, and I am an Associate Professor of Psychology at Providence College. My research falls at the intersection of cognitive psychology, linguistics and cognitive neuroscience.  I am interested in the structure of lexical representations and in applying electrophysiological techniques, in particular event related potentials, to the investigation of cognitive phenomena. Whilst my thesis work consisted of investigating the relationship between orthography and lexical stress in English, my current research is focused on examining how complex words are represented in the mental lexicon or dictionary.

# My other interests
I spent the 2019-2020 academic year as a Provosts Fellow in Cognitive Science at the Rhode Island School of Design (RISD). Although my research falls primarily in the area of language, the range of cognitive science questions in which I am interested is quite broad. One area one that has consistently intrigued me is the relationship between cognition and principles of design. I have long been interested in fashion, architecture and industrial design.

The legendary industrial designer Henry Dreyfuss in his classic 1955 book “Designing for People” argued that “When the point of contact between the product and the people becomes a point of friction, then the [designer] has failed.”  This sentiment was later echoed by Donald Norman, a cognitive scientist who joined the team at Apple in the early 1990s coined the term “user experience design”. In his book “The psychology of everyday things” (later updated to “The Design of everyday things”) he stated: “Design is concerned with how things work, how they are controlled and the nature of the interaction between people and technology.  When done well, the results are brilliant pleasurable products.  When done badly the products are unusable leading to great frustration and irritation.”   Because cognitive science is concerned with understanding why we do the things we do and think the way we think, how we perceive the world around us and what biases we bring to the table, we can use principles of cognitive science to design products, environments and experiences that are both easy to use and aesthetically pleasing.
